so and we go straight back to the UN
General Assembly in New York where the
representative of Jordan is currently
speaking it is
adopted and it's essential to emphasize
that in the event of the adoption es10
would only be temporarily adjourned
immediately following the conclusion of
the debate thank you Mr
President I thank the distinguished
representative of
Jordan
the representative of Jordan has moved
that the debate on agenda item five be
suspended at 300 p.m. today for the
assembly to proceed to the consideration
of draft resolution a stroke
E10 stroke
l25 and that the debate would continue
after the action on the draft
resolution it it is my understanding
that without setting a precedence and
given the urgency of the
issue if the assembly were to decide to
suspend the debate on agenda item
three on agenda item at 300 p.m. for the
assembly to proceed to the consideration
of draft resolution a stroke
es10 stroke
l25 and to continue the debate after the
action on draft
resolution and if the assembly were to
adopt the draft resolution later today
that the 10th emergency special session
would be adjourned temporarily following
the conclusion of the debate on item
five is there any
objection to the
motion
it is so
decided before proceeding
further I wish to address the question
concerning the majority required for the
adoption of the draft
resolution in light of article 18
paragraphs 2 and three of the charter of
the United Nations is there any
objection to taking action on draft
resolution
A10
l25 by a 2third majority of the members
present and
voting I see no
objection the 2third majority of members
present and voting is therefore required
for the adoption of draft resolution a
es10 stroke
[Music]
l25 the 23s majority of members present
and voting is therefore also required
for the adoption of any Amendment to the
draft res
resolution I now give the floor to the
distinguished representative of the
Boliver bolivarian Republic of
Venezuela you're listening to
proceedings at the United Nations
General Assembly we're going to break
down everything that's happening for you
we have Al Z's correspondent Gabriel
alzando who is standing by at un
headquarters in New York and we've got
the pleasure of having Al's diplomatic
editor James Bay with us in the studio
uh Gabe I'll start with you we we so we
listen to the last few minutes of of of
proceedings uh explain to us what we
heard the uh speaker was saying the
debate on the draft resolution on the
Gaza war will be suspended uh if I'm
getting all this right uh at 3M they're
speaking eastern time so that's in over
four hours the debate will be suspended
and I believe that's when they would
then proceed to vote but run us through
the
steps yeah that's right uh essentially
what happened here was a procedural uh
maneuver here so let me just explain it
today there are more than a hundred
countries on the list that want to speak
about this resolution that could go on
for a very long time on Friday perhaps
even into Saturday so what the Jordanian
Ambassador did who is's sponsoring uh
this resolution with 43 co-sponsors is
he asked the president of the security
Council no matter where we're at at 3:00
p.m. local time that's 19 GMT
can we please request to stop the debate
and take a vote at that time uh with no
objections the president of the of the
general assembly as you just heard uh
said yes so essentially what you have
here is pretty pretty simple they're
basically saying we're going to go on
with the debate we'll go on hearing from
speakers uh but at 3 p.m. local 19g will
stop and we'll take a vote that's
essentially what just happened here in
the General Assembly Building what does
the vote then look like so it'll be at
19 GMT just over I said four actually
over 5 hours from now what would that
vote look like I don't mean the results
I just mean what are we going to be
seeing at that point
well unlike the security Council where
in the security Council when votes are
taken uh the Ambassador simply raise
their hand yes or no or raise their hand
if they want to abstain here in the
general assembly there are 193 members
it's lot of countries represented here
of course the entire United Nations body
if you will so when votes are taken in
the general assembly it's done
electronically there's a big screen
where all of the uh where all the the
display of all the votes are are put on
a big screen either green voting for red
voting against or abstaining all the
ambassadors have uh Representatives have
something they can click to register
their vote it's very simple it's pretty
quick and it's very transparent so we'll
get the the vote totals uh very quickly
after the vote is called right Gabriel
thank you very much I